cannot be removed because he has a
girlfriend the elite illegal immigrant
the illegal immigrant who cannot be
deported because and I am not making
this up because he had a pet cat not
making it up but did she check her facts
the latter claim has been disputed by
the U judicial office which has released
a statement this is what it says this
was a case in which the home office
conceded that they had mistakenly failed
to apply their own policy for dealing
with unmarried partners of people
settled in the UK that was the basis for
the decision to uphold the original
tribunal decision the cat had nothing to
do with the decision really the interest
would happen today much for speaking to
add a Bolton to resume denies getting a
fax ROM what making it up of course
everything that went into my speech was
checked I gather that there has been
some question now from a spokesman
questioning that and of course I will
look at it again I mean you would expect
was checked before it went what the
judge actually said in the famous case
was that the man in question did have a
domestic life he had a partner and one
of the things he pointed to was that
they had a cat he wasn't actually saying
I can't deport you because you've got a
cat you accept that what I accept was
Andrew that this was not I mean this was
not the case which made the argument to
the immigration rules changing there are
many cases which make the argument for
the immigration rules changing where the
judges have taken decisions which
haven't shown the balance between the
interest of the public and the interest
of the individual and their right to a
family life and the European Convention
itself is actually balanced in the way
that it's drafted so it enables the
courts to take a decision which isn't
about the absolute right of an
individual to a family life but says
actually we're going to balance out
against the rights of the public more
generally hmm few moments ago the Home
Secretary was asked if she still stood
by her comments
there's a cutout above budget so please
stop should we really enjoy isn't true
is it true do you stand by the story how
can you quit using the cat home sector
story because your governor colleague is
saying that the stories on your face I
can't believe it just me out the only
other fun I could think of is it may be
cat that's got the cream but she's
certainly not that other builtin is that
with us in Manchester what do you make
of all this Adam
well one level it's a bit of a shaggy
dog story I think in the sense that this
is not the most important thing that's
happened we've had many examples before
of cabinet speakers from all parties
taking tabloid headlines writing them
into their speech and then finding that
they don't quite stand up to the facts I
think there are two significant things
which come out of that one is obviously
it's never pretty when two cabinet
colleagues are publicly arguing with
each other and Kenneth Clark clearly
didn't spare the Home Secretary at all
in the comments he made on her speech
and secondly actually this speech did
signal a change of tactics really by the
government to deal with this problem of
people with criminal records not being
deported because of their right to
family life rather than attacking the
human rights convention itself or
suggesting that possibly the Human
Rights Act should be repealed
what resume is now talking about is
reforming the immigration law to make it
clear that it can counter or should
change the emphasis of the way the human
rights convention
is ruled on by judges now that won't
please a lot of conservatives who would
like to see the government getting rid
of it so what it what is Kenneth Clark's
a modus operandi here what is his reason
for behaving in the way that he has
towards the Home Secretary is he cross
particularly about her view and indeed
the Prime Minister's view on the Human
Rights Act or do they just not get on I
would imagine that privately Kenneth
Clark is not particularly impressed by
the idea of questioning the Human Rights
Act or the European Convention which
remember is not part of the European
Union it predates the European Union and
really was established to try and
establish a framework of rights in
Europe after the Second World War but
he's a man now who in his 70s doesn't
really care that much he will say what
he thinks he's a very clever man with a
legal mind and if you think someone's
made a mistake he will say it likewise
as he had earlier this year with his own
controversy he's quite prepared to say
things that a lot of people might find
pretty difficult to accept such as his
comments about what constitutes a
classic or a real rape